# Heads up for this project
I Brandon E. Zabawa have spent probably around 1.5-2 months constantly trying to hit this game and make it work.
I had a great deal of problems, more than I can probably count at this moment.
If you read my todos.md file a lot of it is not x'ed out which might imply I did not successfully accomplish them.
However, this is wrong because now we have a somewhat working mini-game for this video game.
You heard me correct, this is actually a mini-game for the greater game I was intending on designing.
This game will hopefully span other OS concepts, and expand in the vision I was looking for.
I will continue working on this likely on a free time after this semester ends, but on the main branch.
For other contributors, if you want to contribute to this project, you are restricted towards the **Development branch**. This way I can try ideas with others that likely wont interfere with the project if you are contributing for it.

This is much harder than you would believe it to be, especially for a solo developer. You will see I used AI to help me with things to accomplish the task. I am pointing this out because AI caused a great deal of technical debt I been fighting against the last 2-3 weeks, and especially once I had committed to my redesign, such that it actually now functions more like a traditional turn-based game. The entire video game is supposed to be turn-based in general, but certain things are likely to change in the future. For now, I would say unless you are a experience game developer, with probably at least 5+ GameJams under your belt (from 2-day to 1-month Jams), this project will be x10-20 (insert dragon ball meme) harder than expected. It's like training on king kais planet if you're Yamcha, it won't end well (in the sense that it will be a demon to overcome, and actually conqure on your own). So, when I was using AI, I mainly checked the code to see what it did that I liked, what it did that didn't make sense, wrote some prints in there to debug the logic, lots of testing (look up common game-testing practices to save you time. For example, I wished I created a **god-mode** to test certain aspects of my game 1st, versus constantly having to redesign and go through the painful debugger (it's surprsingly both good and annoying to use).

On a serious note, if you do not have prior game-jam experience, have very intense classes you are taking which will cause you to somewhat ignore this project (Im talking to you Undergrads taking this graduate course, or recent undergrad turned grad students that are still in the "undergrad mindset"), this is not a good idea to take on. Video games in general have a stigma against them being "easy" to develop. I thought it would've been easier (loosely coined, I knew it would be a burden but, given my past programming and some game-dev experience, I thought it wouldve been easier. News flash it wasnt), and fun that is why I took it on and it was. However, I realized that a lot of the logic I was trying to incorporate had so many moving parts to debug, test, validate, repeat, and learning this new game engine ontop of it, and the weird git-issues Godot has (I have some stories I will include in my project presentation. Dr. Aedo if you read this please show this to other students as this problem will actually prove detrimental if they do not constantly back up their work), and more that I wish I can ramble on about. Like developing USB Linux driver code, jail-breaking hardware, coding embedded devices (yes I am comparing it to this I have prior expeirence in both), it is all much harder than you think it is. If you are attempting this project, and have not met the (in my opinion) personal requirements: Attended a Game Jam, successfully completed it with other important work on your plate, and the stigma removed, or at least a good deal of project management experience, then you should only be allowed to take on this project if you are working with a group of at max 4 members. Anymore than 4 and the separation of concerns regarding tasks, and communcation for must undergrads or recent grads is typically not at the caliber to lead very large groups. Even major corporations have issues dealing with this. If you are a experienced developer (have several successful gamejams under your belt (solo jams) or very good ability to work with others during said game-jams) then you can work on the project alone or at minimum (recommended regardless) 2 people. Going back to the example with Claude, it acted like a partner with me. Claude could not do everything that I could have done. I had to know the Engine better than Claude, and still debug a good amount of code, and understand the code to help guide it to do at least the bare minimum of what I wanted it to do. Therefore, it was a tag-team effort. The nodes I would say is the most confusing part of this and with any game engine objects. There's essentially infinite stuff you can add scripts too for these objects, special ways to use variables that you wouldn't think work, and etc. that makes a big difference. I would say you can actually code a tscn scene by providing a drawing and attaching it to Claude, and it would indeed make a roughly accurate depiction of what you want, but with some necessary tweaks to be done. 

The most important tip I can provide to you is **PLAN thinking you're dumber than you think you are**. No shame towards this because any skil including game dev is suprisingly incredibly stupidly complicated to do. Even with the use of AI this was a pain to overcome because I still had to learn lots of stuff regarding the engine, how to read the code and predict what it was doing, and more. It was not a walk in the park. The way it would have went better is if I planned as if I was dumber than I thought I was. What does this mean? It means plan more time to learn things you think you know or don't already know. If you spent say like in my case over 1 month focusing on a specific design, and now have to scrap it for a new one? Then plan a lot of time and commitment to learn things you dont already know, and time ontop of that to execute the things you don't know or already know. It'll help you understand what specifically needs to get done weekly/bi-weekly (recommendation 2: always ship with 1-2 week sprints in order to keep pace with the project. Helps move you along better than you thiink and creates a good rhythm for your work). 

I will include other important lessons in my presentation and a video I will attach to my repository documenting what went well, and what didn't go well because I think anyonne who is new at taking on hard tasks should hear it out. Because with game dev, you underestimate how challenging it is, especially when trying to break into that market. This is similar with anything else you do, so its a great and relatable way to have a difficult conversation without offending anyone.Cause at the end of the day, we're all human and we all learn from our mistakes and get better from them.

Thank you for reading and have an awesome day!

Regards,
BEZ.
